      Uncanny Valley
           Mysticus Vallis: Confugerunt ad parabipes

Following is an excerpt from the digital magazine ‘Transhuman Weekly’ (Volume 9, Issue 1): 
Cautionary note: This magazine is not leftist or rightist and does not have affiliations with any political party. Any institution, party, or individual outside of Transhuman Weekly alleging knowledge of Transhuman Weekly’s (non-existent) political agendas will be prosecutable under the law for libel.   
Celebrating 20 Years of the ‘Public’ Posthuman with Skepticism, Disappointment, and Possible Privatization: The Unending Controversy   
Government’s influence on modern technology is astronomical as it is peerless. The word influence is of key importance here; bearing in mind the fact that many government-backed innovations were auxiliaries to their era’s bleeding-edge technologies. Instrumental inventions such as the microchip, GPS, the internet and the more recent CWFs (Controlled Water Fuel Machines), Quantum Computation, and of course, transhumanism, are just a few of the myriad initiatives by the public sector. However, it is seldom that such an institution, spearheading the greatest achievements in the technological industry, also be held under microscopic scrutiny for maltreatment of the same. The records over the last three years are thus shocking to the uninitiated: over five-hundred lawsuits have been filed against the public sector by seventeen private organizations alone, excluding thousands of individuals and private parties. The objective disregard and slackening pace of the government in the handling of its own transhumanism revolution (or H+) puts it in indeed, a questionable light. But to support such a claim, any impartial individual needs indisputable evidence. In this article, we quickly recap a timeline of H+ and investigate just how true the government has been to its earlier biotechnological promise. 
20 Years Ago, Today: The First Posthuman 
The world was introduced to its first integrated Transhuman, Adrienn. Then thirty-seven years old and suffering from Stage III brain cancer, she had volunteered – in a public and celebratory fashion - to be a test subject of the government’s Transhumanism program. The thirty-day tribulation made Adrienn a fully-functional Posthuman that had overcome many physical and mental illnesses including cancer, decrepitude, precursors to notorious mental illnesses such as Parkinson’s Disease, Alzheimer’s disease, and so on. Adrienn was now invulnerable to ten times the brute force that broke human bone, her tissue fully regenerative, her memory almost photographic, cognitive abilities exponentially greater, her physicality had become more personable, and her mood consistently cheerful. The most significantly appealing data byte of all was Adrienn’s projected immortality: If not attacked by an unprecedented disease or calamity, Adrienn was projected to live for eternity. However, the implementation of such biogenetic enhancements is taxing by its very nature, and all subjects before Adrienn underwent genetic changes only piecemeal. People were thus greatly apprehensive of a cancerous patient’s withstanding ability, and the government’s radio silence during this period darkened the public’s speculation upon Adrienn’s mortality. Many today allege that this was the first time the public saw the government culpable for mishandling transhumanism - a dubiety and mistrust that was further fueled by leading biotechnological organizations. While the motive of such organizations today is still debatable, governmental secrecy continues to be a reason for alarm.
13 Years Ago: Two-Faceted H+
It is common knowledge today that transhumanism is two-pronged; consisting of both biogenetic and technological enhancement. Governments across the world had so far only dabbled [successfully so] in the former, and had vehemently prohibited private scientific bodies from either. Unsupervised transhumanistic enhancements to the human body, even if done in the privacy of one’s home, were prosecutable under the law. This led to an array of human rights movements – more to assert the abstract prerogative over one’s own body than to transform into a Posthuman – that ultimately failed in their purpose. Governments were unyielding and perseverant, and even leading biotechnological organizations on the government’s good side for decades, had proved dismal in their attempt to privatize H+ advancement. So far, only militaries and test subjects across the world had experienced the benefits of transhumanism, and publicly available enhancement services seemed nowhere in sight.
10 Years Ago: The Government Breaks Its Silence
The only RTI (Right to Information) lawsuit that finally broke mounds of red tape and received a response from the Government was filed in India, and the response was nonetheless nebulous and lukewarm. Below is an excerpt from the five-page article: “The possibility of privatizing Transhumanism is nowhere in the foreseeable future due to the uncertainty associated with safety. While biogenetic enhancement may easily go astray and lead to irreversible destruction to the subject’s genome, technological H+ may contract unfound viruses that could wipe out the entire sub-race.” 
This response only led to further outcry and a blowback of more lawsuits and protests from scientific societies and non-profit organizations alike. In turn, governments regressed to their reclusive state and never responded to any allegation since.  

8 Years Ago, Today: The Posthuman Aristocracy
	Almost a year after protests fizzled and the world had resumed the humdrum of its regular life, 117 governments chose to celebrate the anniversary of Adrienn’s success by releasing the same program to the public at an exorbitant price. Only 1,072 individuals availed this service, and their biogenetic enhancement was predictably not compounded by technological transhumanism. Instead, the Portuguese government – the pioneer of the H+ movement – surprised the world with an ‘archetype’ of what the Techno H+ would look like. The advancements of the Techno Posthuman were to be similar to Adrienn’s, only exponentially more significant and versatile in nature. In addition, this day also marked the release of the first issue of Transhuman Weekly, a widely successful magazine that continues to be the ninth-most circulated magazine in human history.
Today: Possible Privatization 
	Little change has since transpired in the transhumanism movement, barring the gradually falling price of H+ advancement. Today, an estimated 600,000 individuals are Posthumans, a number that is predicted to rise to an astronomical four billion if transhumanism is privatized. Efforts to revoke all prohibitory laws on private H+ have been constant and abysmal, but many private scientific bodies assure the public that transhumanism will be privatized by the end of this year. Their confidence seems unshakable, yet the source of the same unnamed and ambiguous. With billions of people looking forward to the culmination of the H+ Revolution, Transhuman Weekly hopes that transhumanism is made a compulsory and affordable right to all human beings. With the future marred by a possible parabiped superintelligence and the collapse of human society as we currently know it, the only definitive key to the human race’s perpetuation seems to be transhumanism and its privatization.
						*
Prologue
The looming sky is a dull shade of gray, mirroring the disposition of the inhabitants below; gloomy and dejecting to the sight. The contrast between the sky and its tapestry of puffy black clouds is conspicuous by its negligibility. Lightning strikes the horizon of Earth’s prophetic rendezvous with the sky and is quickly followed by a callous whip of thunder. In this grim portrait, the only sign of vivacity is a rapidly setting sun, spilling its orange contents on the rim of the sky’s and Earth’s meeting. Yet this too, a final attempt at circumventing an intangible air of dismay, is doomed to fail as the evening begrudgingly welcomes night. 
 	This symbolic battle between light and darkness does not faze young Jocelyn in the least, instead, she tightens her arms around her folded knees and braves the light drizzle. The rain patters against the glass rooftop deviously, cajoling Jocelyn to slip into sorrowful surrender just as the world around her. But her eyes narrow, the distance between them decreases as her brow furrows, and an innocent smile spreads across her lips. She outstretches her hands and welcomes the rain, the defiance in her expression precocious and aware. This indifference to the recent past is neither apathy nor recuperation; it is instead a postponement of reality.  As if a hiatus to weeks of misery, chaotic thoughts no longer dull her senses and mire her mind, neither do their nagging sense of inextricability from a web of unanswerable questions. Despite her adolescent throat’s constriction in abject helplessness, Jocelyn finds solace in the beautiful sun, the gentle touch of coarse droplets against her skin, and perhaps even the sloppy uncaringness of the moment. 
Soon the only physical mnemonics of this oblivious bliss will be the unforgiving night sky and its companioning lightning, now racketing such a thunder that she is quickly shaken back to reality. It is many minutes after the sun has set and the rain has stopped that she realizes her sorrow has furtively crept back in. 
Tears are already crawling down her cheeks and sinking at her chin. Before she can process the reason behind them, they camouflage with the raindrops on her pale skin. 
Perceiving this unconscious capitulation as an utter defeat, she rises and places her weight on four tensed limbs, weary of the predicament of the slippery glass supporting her diminutive body. Her face once again turns to the sky, the welling tears at the rims of her eyelids sparkling a dark shade of blue. Her eyes then narrow to shoot an angry yet tired look at the night above; the intangible enemy in this silent and personal battle. 
On the other side of the translucent glass on which her knees and palms calculatedly perch are children like her; just as orphaned and equally lost. Although muffled by the 5-inch glass between them, she can indistinctly hear the scuttling of their feet as they settle in chairs, obedient and collective in their presence for another late-evening event. Her fellow elementary schoolers, just as morose and forlorn as she, assemble in this classroom every evening to pay dutiful attendance to an assortment of consolatory events organized by their Science teacher. Despite his shining authority in the face of its dire lack, for he is one of the only five surviving adults of their school’s faculty, Jocelyn finds his attempts to pacify an inconsolable collection of parentless seven-year-olds laughably ludicrous. Such was the vacuity of his attempts that a usually commiserative Jocelyn caught herself wondering why she sought refuge in her school at all, given that she now had a grotesque sense of freedom which rivaled that of all parented seven-year-olds in history. But the sight her inquisitive eyes met with tonight was one for sore eyes; for standing adjacent to her uncharacteristically mirthful teacher was a stranger. In the wake of the epidemic was a policy advocated by all surviving grown-ups alike; avoidance of anything or anybody unknown. Yet here was the most vehement enforcer of this rule almost rubbing shoulders with a strange adult. Just as their feet, the voices of all the children made a noise adequately compounding to surpass the glass roof, creating a ruckus of confusion, fear, and even guarded admonishment. This atmosphere of unwelcomeness was palpable to even the outsider, for the stranger’s mouth had quickly contorted from a weak smile to a grimace. This vicissitude is one so guarded and subtle that only the astute can catch it. His feet shift uncomfortably and he wraps his palms around his elbows, a conspicuous sign of discomfort and inferiority. 
Experiencing these events unfurl as a spectator no more significant than the wind around her, from her mind had apparently slipped the fact that she was a mere seven feet above her fellow classmates. Being on transparent glass no less, she is by no means shot of her teacher’s piercing glance. He gravely gazes at the room’s ceiling, meeting directly with Jocelyn in her crouched position. His face bears a semblance of humor, yet the lines of his mouth are pursed in a fashion too serious to be accommodating. Jocelyn blinks in rapid succession, painfully aware of her situation’s travesty. She exchanges an uncomfortable smile with her teacher and tacitly conveys relentment. As soon as her teacher’s eyes dart back to his line of sight, Jocelyn wipes her eyes determinedly and crawls towards the edge of the roof with greater purpose.

‘I would like to introduce all of you to my friend.’ The teacher says, a half-smile cracking through the usually plastered sternness on his face. ‘He has never met children of your age, and he is very excited to speak to you about his experiences.’ 
The stranger’s palms remove themselves from his forearms, and he waves awkwardly at the thirty-odd pairs of eyes staring at him.
‘What’s your name?’ One of the children asks curiously. 
‘I originally went by a name different from now,’ The stranger says through a chuckle, a stranger no more, ‘But I rechristened myself with the name Manav. It’s a Sanskrit word, which is my favorite language.’ 
‘What does it mean?’
‘It means human being.’
‘That’s a strange name.’ Another child points out. 
‘I understand why it would seem so.’
‘Why are you here?’
‘That’s rather rude, Mr-’
‘That’s all right.’ Manav says with a light smile and cuts through the teacher’s remark. ‘I am here to tell you a few things about my life, and to offer you my commiseration and condolence.’ 
Two feet almost unnoticeably kick themselves through an open window, quickly followed by the bedraggled torso and face of Jocelyn. She quietly places herself on the corner-most chair and collects herself. Her return to the class is met with numerous adolescent guffaws both welcoming and dismissive of her presence. 
‘Thank you for finally joining us, Joss,’ The teacher says, his expression again seemingly light yet too noncommittal to decipher.
Jocelyn smiles self-consciously and exchanges a quick glance with the stranger.
Manav refocuses himself. ‘Now you might wonder why my life should be of any interest to you, especially in light of recent events.’ He says and pauses, collecting himself. His voice shudders as he speaks again. ‘I understand that all of you have lost people you love, and there is no consolation worthy of such trying times. I understand that what has recently occurred may as well set the path for how you live the rest of your lives - in fear, disdain, hatred, and suspicion. I am not here to advocate a cause of my own, or to convince you to embrace love. Your memories today will serve as the backbone of the many that you will later make, and when you look back at these times a decade from now, no matter what life is like then, I want you to know that even the most alienable of us sympathize with your predicament.’
Jocelyn can tell that the words he strings together are delicate, thought-out, yet still dissatisfying to him. He has much to say in spite of temporary inability to say it.
He opens his mouth and closes it again, measuring the vacant and confused faces of his audience. Their patience is wearing thin, he realizes, before he speaks again.
‘I’m sorry, children.’ He says. ‘I’m sorry that this happened.’ 
‘Why are you sorry?’ One of the children asks. ‘What did you do?’
‘What are you?’ Erupts a voice from another corner.
The strikingness and revelation of this question do not bypass the minds of the children, for the class suddenly breaks into hushed whispers. 
Discomfiture is frothing underneath his brittle surface of composure as Manav maintains his posture in quietude.
‘You’re an Artificial Human!’ The epiphany suddenly escapes one of the children’s mouths, and the voices grow louder, more challenging, and lesser submissive to adult authority.
Manav’s silence only reinforces this allegation.
‘Munt! You’re a munt!’ Another child says, the intonation of her utterance a qualifier of the disrespect she intends to cause. 
‘That’s what my dad called you Artificial Humans!’ Another voice chimes in. ‘You’re a blasted munt!’
‘That’s enough!’ The teacher screams, but to no avail. Paper balls and sharpeners are now being flung in the general direction of Manav, with numerous rioting students chanting their newly favored expletive.
‘Munt, munt, munt, munt!’ Their voices quiver with emotion, inheriting the collective disdain for all parabipeds. Their voices are emboldened by hate, deriving their rage from the abhorrence of their unforeseen, excruciating, and disquieting orphanage. ‘Munt, munt, munt!’    
Realizing that the situation has precipitated, the teacher holds Manav by the wrist and directs him to the exit. They both depart from the room and the teacher closes the door behind them. 
In spite of their departure, the riot refuses to sediment. While the children do not care to attempt a pursuit of the adults, they adorn the door with spitballs and astray stationery, screaming in unison new yet equally pejorative synonyms to the word munt. 
Jocelyn quietly slides out of the window again. She ascends the familiar ladder in practiced movements, climbs onto the roof, and again traverses its slippery expanse with gentle caution.
The glass wall that separates the classroom from the empty corridor is reduced to a negligible two-dimensionality from her position, and she can listen to the objects of her interest with an ease that her schoolmates cannot. She places herself strategically, such that anyone in the corridor would barely spot more than her peeking ear if they glanced above. As she closes the gap between her ear and the roof, struggling to zone out the chaotic rally of her fellow schoolmates, she unconsciously wonders how infrastructure had looked before everything was made out of steel and glass.
‘-counterproductive. I didn’t see this-’ And she fails to catch the rest of her teacher’s sentence.
‘It’s not your fault, Mr. Madrid. As a matter of fact, I want to give it one more try if you can try and cool them down. Their anger is-’ In contrast, the parabiped’s voice is distinctive and eloquent, a far cry from his anxious state in the classroom. ‘-justified.’
Silence engulfs them, the only sounds being that of a ghastly breeze and the chaos brewing on the other side of the wall. Curious of why the teacher hasn’t responded, she sneaks a careful peek and is shocked to find both their eyes pointedly staring in her direction. 
‘It’s bad manners to eavesdrop, Jocelyn Sosa.’ Her teacher’s voice is crystal clear this time, as crystal clear as it can be through glass. ‘You can come down now. The door isn’t locked.’ 
Gulping in equal measures of embarrassment and excitement, she nods at her teacher and crawls back the way she had come. Descending the ladder, climbing through the window, and walking past the screaming students, she opens the door a crack and slides through it with such agility that she is difficult to notice in the juxtaposition of the agitated crowd.
‘This is Jocelyn Sosa.’ Her teacher says with a half smile. Jocelyn closes the door and is now only a foot away from the parabiped. She can sense gentleness from the man, an aura that was earlier imperceivable. This calm visage does not crack as he kneels on one knee to commensurate with Jocelyn’s height and outstretches a welcoming hand to shake. ‘Nice to meet you, Jocelyn.’ He says. ‘You can call me Manav.’
‘Hello, Manav.’ Jocelyn says in a voice that is hoarse from disuse. ‘You can call me Joss.’ 
She is not certain, but as she says this, she observes a glint of familiarity sparkle in Manav’s eyes, and it passes as quickly as it had come.
‘Joss, why are you not in your classroom? Why are you not with the others?’ Manav asks. 
Her teacher folds his arms and looks at Jocelyn expectantly as well. 
‘Because I,’ She pauses carefully, calculating her words. ‘I don’t think you deserve it.’ 
‘Ah.’ He says simply. ‘I believe no one deserves hatred, not just I. Especially not innocent children with deceased parents.’ 
‘Yet that is all they have.’ Their teacher intercedes silently. 
It takes Jocelyn a moment to understand this sentence. ‘So hatred works both ways.’
Both the adults nod. ‘It hurts the perpetrator just as much as the victim.’
Manav places an affectionate hand on Joss’s head. ‘Do you miss your parents?’
‘Yes.’ Jocelyn doesn’t pause to think. ‘But my brother takes care of me between classes. He puts me to bed too.’ She adds, and her teacher nods at Manav to substantiate this fact. ‘He’s a seventh grader.’ 
‘I see.’ Manav says. ‘Do you have other family members?’
‘Yes.’ Joss says. ‘I have an aunt. But I don’t know where she is.’
‘So she’s alive.’ 
‘I believe so. But I don’t think she’s safe. She talks to me sometimes.’
‘What does she say?’
‘She talked to me only one time after the,’ Jocelyn swallows. ‘After the epidemic. She told me that I had to stay in school, that I was the safest here. She said she would come for me after the riots ended and everyone would then be safe. She says being with her would endanger our lives as well. So she wants us to wait for a while, me and my brother.’ 
Manav nods slowly, frowning thoughtfully. ‘That sounds reasonable. Do you feel safe here? Do you think you can wait it out?’
‘I think we should, but my brother is impatient.’ She says the second half of this sentence in an undertone. 
‘He doesn’t think that she’ll ever come for us.’
‘And why is that?’
‘Because, well, because of the nature of her profession.’
‘And what does she do?’ 
‘You two stay right here,’ Her teacher interrupts. ‘I’ll try to calm the students. After I’m back, Manav, we should arrange for you to head back to your headquarters. Staying here through the night might not be the best idea at the moment.’ He says. 
Manav nods solemnly. ‘I understand.’
Her teacher enters their classroom and is immediately welcomed with an exponential decrease in the volume of his students’ chants. He closes the door, leaving the corridor with echoes of nothing but the ghosts of his voice, now too calm and low for Jocelyn or Manav to comprehend.
‘You were telling me about your aunt.’ Manav reminds Jocelyn. ‘About her profession.’ 
‘She works for a leading scientific body. At least that’s what my brother calls it. My brother says many people are out for her throat because they hate her organization.’
‘They do indeed.’ Manav says seriously. ‘For reasons similar to why your schoolmates hate me.’
‘Do you know my aunt?’
Manav smiles. ‘Yes, I do.’
‘How do you know who my aunt is?’
‘Because she told me about her little niece. You also share the same last name.’ Manav explains. ‘You look a little like her, Joss.’
‘Oh.’ Jocelyn contemplates this statement. ‘But they’re wrong, aren’t they?’
‘Who?’
‘The other kids and the people that want to kill my aunt. They’re wrong to hate you.’
Manav pats her head again, smiling. Such a gesture always seemed condescendingly affectionate from grown-ups; a tacit acknowledgment of her childish innocence and unawareness of the world. But Manav’s pat seemed somehow comradely - as if he was only patting her head because he couldn’t reach for her shoulder.
‘What truly is wrong and right, Joss, in a world where everyone perceives either differently?’
Jocelyn again pauses to consider this.
‘My dad used to say people can have any belief system they want, as long as it’s not causing anyone potential physical or emotional harm.’ 
‘Your dad was wise.’
‘My mom never thought so.’ 
For some reason Manav finds this humorous, for his face brightens up animatedly as he chuckles. 
‘But she agreed with him. And they loved each other.’ Her voice grows tinier. ‘And now they’re gone.’
Manav kneels down again, his mouth locked in a grimace, wondering what one could say to such a sentence. He places both arms around her shoulders comfortingly. 
‘Your aunt will come for you, Jocelyn. I promise you she will.’
‘How do you know?’
‘I just do.’
‘Okay.’ Jocelyn says quietly, stifling a sob. ‘Can you promise me that again?’ 
Manav smiles so warmly that it reaches his hazel-brown eyes. ‘I promise that your aunt will come for you and your brother, Jocelyn. And I promise you will be a happy family.’
‘Thank you.’ 
Manav returns to his full height. ‘Would you like to go back to your class again?’ 
Jocelyn nods with a defeated sigh. ‘Okay.’ Her face suddenly perks up, ever so slightly. ‘Can I ask you one last question?’ 
‘Fire away.’ 
‘How old are you?’
Manav laughs. ‘I am four months old.’ 
‘Oh.’ 
‘But don’t worry, I’m quite as capable and intelligent as an adult human. Definitely worthy of the age I look, if I might say.’ 
Jocelyn wants to tell him that it is not his capabilities that matter to her, or how human he looks. She wants to tell him that she does not care for such aspects, and she wishes nobody would either. 
But she bites her tongue, unaware of the source of her reticence, nods at Manav one last time and reenters her classroom.
Her quiet walk to the only wet and vacant chair is unacknowledged – exactly as Jocelyn prefers it – except for the teacher’s infinitesimal pause. The atmosphere of the classroom is now just as peaceful and well-mannered as it was before Manav’s entry.
‘But can we ask you some questions, Mr. Madrid?’ 
‘And what would they be?’ 
‘How do you know him?’ 
‘How do you know he isn’t one of them?’ 
‘Isn’t it unsafe to be around them?’ 
This bombardment of questions is unceasing, coming in pairs and one quickly succeeded by another.
‘What if a cabal targets him and we get killed too?’ 
‘Why does he call himself a human being when he isn’t?’
‘Why did he come here?’
‘He’s a friend of mine.’ The teacher responds curtly.
This evasion of the truth is too obvious for the children to bite. ‘What was your agenda?’
‘It appears that I have a lot of explaining to do.’
Some students fervently nod, but the majority simply glares.
He folds his arms and slouches slightly.  ‘Firstly, I would never put any of you in danger. Manav is the first model of a new variant of parabiped. No vandal has or ever will hear of his existence; his movements cannot be tracked by anyone. Now technically, he is not as much my friend as he is a cohort. We find our alliance in our belief systems. How I know him is information quite out of your scope, but only to protect you from knowledge that may be held against you in the future. The unforeseeable future.  
‘Now, he is not confused about his origin, children, you can take my word for it. He is very aware that he is not a full human – and that he was willing to reveal this fact to us obviously put him in grave danger. I would say I am disappointed in you all, but I am more exasperated than anything else. Just like you, I am experiencing a range of other emotions; I am stupefied and horror-struck by more significant tragedies. I was hoping to convince you that if parabipeds truly were behind the epidemic, then not all parabipeds are to be feared and abhorred – a notion that quite evidently backfired.’ He says and suggestively eyes the slew of crumpled papers on the floor. ‘Yet in no scenario at all will I tolerate the language you used. Such expletives were so far unheard of within these walls-’

At this moment, while the children are carefully ruminating upon this spate of latest information from Mr. Madrid, while Manav is behind the door - mindful of and jumpy at all sounds indicative of potential detriment or detraction, and Jocelyn is attentively eyeing the anxious silhouette of the strange yet affable parabiped behind the door, a torrent of violent air shakes the classroom with a force so vehement that all tables and chairs in the classroom rise two inches from the ground and are suspended in mid-air for a fractional moment.
Their resultant crash creates a ripple of noise explosive enough to rival the distant sound of the nuclear detonation itself. The children land on the floor with resonating thuds and from each throat is uttered a cry that commingles both their excruciation and bewilderment.
The first to collect himself is also the first to hasten to the window. He places two trembling hands on the moist glass, breathing more fog on to its surface.
A cataclysmic blast of light flashes across the sky, instantly dowsing its dreary and pitch-dark color with a radiance so bright it is momentarily blinding to the eye. 
Children are rising from their painful positions, pushing aside overlapping chairs and tables, thronging both his sides with a vigor equally sordid and awed.
As this light subsides into a mere delicate and dying imprint on their vision, their surroundings reveal a shakiness just as unanticipated as their own. Vehicles are noisily beeping, trunks of numerous trees are wayward. The rain is unyielding to the plight of an already confused night, thundering strikes of lightning are dancing across the sky like frantic twigs of a fluorescent tree.
Yet the most prominent and distinguishable metaphor of the calamity it has wreaked is the distant mushroom cloud, its yellow-gray constituents so thick and dense that its mere volume makes the spectacle visible enough to compensate for the hundred-mile distance.
‘Holy shit.’ One of the children mutters, all pretense of discipline abandoned. ‘That’s a nuclear bomb.’ She observes grimly.
Manav and Mr. Madrid are standing behind the crowd of agape students, both just as appalled yet aware of their protective responsibility within this social construct.
‘Stay close, children.’ Mr. Madrid warns, his voice curiously lacking in vitality. He is torn between a myriad of critical thoughts – whether to fear for their own lives or pity the ones seemingly lost, whether to contemplate the cause of this destruction or the protection from its repercussions. His professional training was never equipped with a nuclear detonation drill.
‘This is war, Mr. Madrid.’ Jocelyn quietly says as she massages a bruised shoulder, shrouded in the hoard of her fellow students. ‘All explosions are attacks, but nuclear bombs are war.’
Although she is merely echoing words her mother had said much before the harbingers of calamity had arrived, she cannot help but understand the full depth of these words as she experiences them firsthand.
The silence that follows is both fearful and wonderstruck as each observer marvels at the explosion’s sheer magnitude and beauty. Mr. Madrid finally pats the shoulder of the student nearest to him and says softly, ‘Let’s go to the bunker. Subterranean is the safest we’ll ever be.’
He exchanges a foreboding glance with Manav, whose shaky visage is glistening with a layer of cold sweat. His re-entrance to the class, anxiety forgotten, was all but ignored.
‘And you have to return to your headquarters.’ 
Manav nods weakly, his knowing consternation so intense and powering that it grips his throat and robs him of all voice.
							* 

 Para·bi·ped
       /'per?'biped/
noun
1.	An artificially created humanoid
Origin
para
from Greek para, meaning ‘distinct from, but analogous to’
biped
from Latin bipes, bi meaning ‘having two’ and pes/ped meaning ‘foot’

							*
